DOCS-7677-dynamic-component-example-kt (#1764)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/dynamic-evaluate-component-reference.adoc

> 

Reviewer: INSTRUCTIONS
Hi Kim, Could you review the following PR for Mule Runtime?
Link to PR: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime/pull/1764/files
Type: CE
Scope: :meeple-green:
Due: EOD Monday 25th is fine.

|===

> == Evaluate DataWeave Script from a File System Example

Reviewer 2: **from File System...**, or **from the File System...**

> The following example shows how the Dynamic Evaluate Component selects and executes a DataWeave script stored locally in the file system. The application's flow behavior is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how the Dynamic Evaluate component selects and executes a DataWeave script stored locally in the file system. The application's flow behavior is as follows:
```

Reviewer: I would make the following a numbered list, because the items are chronological.

> The following example shows that based on a POST request made to the Mule application, the Dynamic Evaluate Component selects and executes a DataWeave script stored locally in the file system. The application's flow behavior is as follows:

Reviewer 3: I would remove the clause "based on a POST request made to the Mule application" (it is a detail of the example that is mentioned lateer) or add it at the end of the sentence.
For example:
"The following example shows how the Dynamic Evaluate Component selects and executes a DataWeave script stored locally in the file system"
or "The following example shows that based on a POST request made to the Mule application, the Dynamic Evaluate Component selects and executes a DataWeave script stored locally in the file system based on a POST request"

> * An HTTP Listener source listens to a POST URL request that contains a locale query parameter and a payload.

Reviewer 2: locale > `locale` or _locale_ to clarify that this is the parameter's name. Apply this change in all places where "locale" appears.

> * A File Read operation uses the locale query parameter name received in the HTTP request to search locally the DataWeave script that matches the parameter name.

Reviewer 2: query parameter _name_ > query parameter received...

* The File Read operation stores the content of the script into a new variable.

> * A Dynamic Evaluate Component executes the DataWeave expression stored in the variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Dynamic Evaluate component executes the DataWeave expression stored in the variable.
```

* A Logger component logs the payload result of the transformation.

> The DataWeave scripts stored locally can be stored in a Database instead of locally, and the app can be modified to pick the files from there instead of the file system. This enables you to replace any of the `.dwl` files while the app is deployed and running, changing the DataWeave script to execute without having to modify or redeploy the application.

Reviewer: Is this still as accurate?
```suggestion
The locally stored DataWeave scripts can be stored in a database instead, and the app can be modified to pick the files from that database instead of the file system. Using the database enables you to replace any of the `.dwl` files while the app is deployed and running without having to modify or redeploy the application.
```

> The DataWeave scripts stored locally can be stored in a Database instead of locally, and the app can be modified to pick the files from there instead of the file system. This enables you to replace any of the `.dw` files while the app is deployed and running, changing the DataWeave script to execute without having to modify or redeploy the application.

Reviewer 2: `.dw` > `.dwl` (which is the proper extension for dw files)

> The DataWeave scripts stored locally can be stored in a Database instead of locally, and the app can be modified to pick the files from there instead of the file system. This enables you to replace any of the `.dwl` files while the app is deployed and running, changing the DataWeave script to execute without having to modify or redeploy the application.

Reviewer 3: I would remove this or add to the following section.

> To accomplish this example you must create two DataWeave scripts and store them locally, create the Mule application, run and test the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, you create two DataWeave scripts and store them locally, create the Mule application, and run and test the application:
```
...going straight to screen capture.

> To accomplish this example you must create two DataWeave scripts and stored them locally, create the Mule application, run and test the application.

Reviewer 2: stored > store

> The following screenshot shows the Anypoint Studio app flow for this example:

Reviewer: Omit, per above.

.Dynamic Evaluate Flow example in Anypoint Studio
image::dynamic-evaluate-flow-1.png[Dynamic Evaluate Flow example in Anypoint Studio]

=== Create and Store the DataWeave Scripts

> To create and store the DataWeave scripts locally, follow the next steps:

Reviewer: This just repeats the title. Perhaps to provide a context in the example comprising the subtopics, how about something like...:
```suggestion
The first step in evaluating DataWeave scripts from the file system is to create and locally store the scripts:
```

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.

> . In the *Package Explorer* window, under your Mule project right-click the *src/main/resources* folder and select *New>File*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Package Explorer* window, under the name of your Mule project, right-click the *src/main/resources* folder and select *New > File*.
```

. In the *File name* field, add the name `dw_en-US.dwl` to create the new DataWeave script file.
. Click *Finish*.
. In the *dw_en-US.dwl* window, paste the following DataWeave expression:
+
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
    "First Name": payload.name,
    "Last Name": payload.last,
    "Country": payload.loc
}
----
+
. Repeat the previous steps and create a new file named `dw_es-AR.dwl` that contains the following DataWeave expression:
+
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
    "Nombre": payload.name,
    "Apellido": payload.last,
    "País": payload.loc
}
----
+
. Save your changes.

=== Create the Mule Application

> To create the Mule application in Studio, follow the next steps:

Reviewer: ditto, something like...
```suggestion
After creating and locally saving your example scripts, create the Mule application in Studio:
```

> . In the *Package Explorer* window, under the *src/main/mule (Flows)* folder, navigate to your flow `.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Package Explorer* window *src/main/mule (Flows)* folder, navigate to your flow's `.xml` file.
```

> . In the *Package Explorer* window, under the *src/main/mule (Flows)* folder navigate to your flow `.xml` file.

Reviewer 2: folder navigate > folder, navigate

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *HTTP Listener* source and drag it onto the canvas.

> The source initiates the flow by listening for incoming HTTP requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *HTTP Listener* source and drag it onto the canvas.
+
The source initiates the flow by listening for incoming HTTP requests.
```

> The source initiates the flow by listening for incoming HTTP message attributes.

Reviewer 2: HTTP message attributes > HTTP requests

. Set the *Path* field to `/test`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP Listener in the app.
. On the *General* tab, configure the following fields:

> +

Reviewer: Why the linespace?

* *Host*: `All Interfaces [0.0.0.0] (default)`

> * *Port*: `8081`

Reviewer: How do we prevent these from transforming as subbullets instead of bullets?

> +

Reviewer: ditto re. linespace?

. Click *OK*.
. Drag the *File Read* operation to the right of *HTTP Listener*.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the File Read operation in the app.

> . On the *General* tab, set the *Working Directory* field to the main resources folder where your Studio project and previous DataWeave scripts live, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *General* tab, set the *Working Directory* field to the main resources folder that contains your Studio project and previous DataWeave scripts:
```

+
`/Users/username/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/dynamicevaluate/src/main/resources`
+
. Click *OK*.

> . In the *File path* field set the following path `#["dw_" ++ attributes.queryParams.locale ++ ".dwl"]`. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *File path* field, set the path `#["dw_" ++ attributes.queryParams.locale ++ ".dwl"]`. +
```

> The connector reads the locally stored DataWeave script file names that start with `dw_` and contains the `locale` query parameter (`attributes.queryParams.locale`) received in the HTTP request.
> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
The connector reads the locally stored DataWeave script file names that start with `dw_` and that contain the `locale` query parameter (`attributes.queryParams.locale`) received in the HTTP request.
```

> . In the *Advanced* tab, set the *Target Variable* field with `dwScript`. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Advanced* tab, set the *Target Variable* field to `dwScript`. +
+
```

Reviewer: Don't forget to insert a linespace between a step (or bullet-list item) and its further description. GLOBAL

This variable stores the DataWeave script that matched the file search.
. Drag the *Dynamic Evaluate* component to the right of *File Read*.

> . Set the *Expression* field to `#[vars."dwScript"]` to execute the matched DataWeave script saved in the variable  `dwScript`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Expression* field to `#[vars."dwScript"]` to execute the matched DataWeave script saved in the variable `dwScript`.
```

> . Set the *Target value* to `payload`.

Reviewer: *Target* value?

. Drag a *Logger* component to the right of *Dynamic Evaluate*.
. Set the *Message* field to `#[payload]`.
. Save your Mule application.

=== Run and Test the Mule Application

> To run and test the Mule application:

Reviewer: ditto:
```suggestion
After you create..., run and test it:
```

. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run > Run As > Mule Application*.

> . Send a POST request to `+http://localhost:8081/test+` appending any of the following query parameters to the URL `locale=en-US` or `locale=es-AR`, for example: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Send a POST request to `+http://localhost:8081/test+`, appending query parameters to the URL `locale=en-US` or `locale=es-AR`: +
```

`+http://localhost:8081/test?locale=en-US+`
+

> Additionally, in the POST request also send the following payload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally in the POST request, send the following payload:
```

+
[source,JSON,linenums]
----
{
"name": "Max",
"last": "The Mule",
"loc": "Argentina"
}
----
+

> . In the Studio Console, scroll through the logs to see the result message, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the Studio Console, scroll through the logs to see the result message:
```

+
[source,console,linenums]
----
INFO  2021-01-19 11:18:25,559 [[MuleRuntime].uber.12: [dynamicevaluate].dynamicevaluateFlow.CPU_INTENSIVE @2588f400] [processor: dynamicevaluateFlow/processors/2; event: 319aacc0-5a61-11eb-bbb8-f01898ad2638] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: {
  "First Name": "Max",
  "Last Name": "The Mule",
  "Country": "Argentina"
}
----

> === XML for Evaluate DataWeave Script from a File system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== XML for Evaluating a DataWeave Script from a File System
```

> === XML for Evaluating DataWeave Script from a File system

Reviewer 2: XML for Evaluate DataWeave Script from File System (to match the example's name presented before)
